# Jaxxen the Tiefling Warlock

[Current Character Sheet](5e_Jaxxen_Tiefling_Warlock_1.pdf)

[Base Character Sheet](5e_Jaxxen_Tiefling_Warlock.pdf)

# Notes

# Session 1 - Seeking the Tower of Umar

## Day 1

Jaxxen the warlock and Matheris the bard gather some additional supplies before setting out from Frizgate towards the great city of Nostr. En route they recall legends of a stone tower that used to be present on a side route. While slightly out of the way, Jaxxen and Matheris agree to see if they can locate it and check it out.  Its supposed to be into the woods 150-200 feet from the road, where there are three noticeable weathered stones on the side, with one darker then the others.  The name is the Tower of Uram.  It could be unsafe, but there could be riches as there was a well off person of nobility there. Matheris has with him Jinxia, a small halfling that hides in the pack of a mule named Serafina.  Before leaving, Jinxia successfully steals some rations, and Jaxxen decides to buy some outright.  At the end of the day we rest, each of us taking a watch.  On Jaxxens watch, he holds his wrist periodically and looks to the sky considering the night serpent in his vision.

## Day 2

We each eat rations in the morning. There are no specific events this day. Some wind, big clouds in the sky. Calm and peaceful. Dirt and gravel on the road, and some bigger smaller boulders.  The forest is present on boths sides with tall trees.  We see a horse with saddle, but no rdier. Not connected bridle behind and eating grass. Materis goes to the horse and sees the saddle is bloody. Examining the blood, it seems to be either elf or half-elf blood, about a day old.  Jaxxen suggests we press on, and walks the mule Serafina with Matheris on the horse. We make camp and Jaxxen takes the second watch. Rubs his wrist, and Matheris notices it.  Jaxxen thought he saw something above the clouds for just a moment, but then it was gone.

## Day 3

We eat rations in the morning and the clouds over head are the same, big and puffy. We remember about the three stones we need to be looking for. Soon, arrows fly towards us from up the road. Matheris has cover behind the horse but tries to take cover behind rocks on the left side and stumbles. Serafina the mule ends up taking an arrow to the abdomen while moving to the left side of the road and is wounded.  Jaxxen quickly drops behind a rock on the right side.  We hear noises in the distance, and think we're about 180 feet away.  Matheris tries to be clever, using mage hand to carry a stick towards the noise, but doesnt attract any fire. But we see a hooded figure with a longbow and leather armor taking aim. As we dash from rock to rock, archer draws again and we see another draw a bow.  Not sure how many, could be 2? 3?. Jinxia thinks its a half-orc but shrugs uncertain. Matheris decides to hop back on the road and plee that we mean no harm. Ends up being hit with an arrow in response.  At this point Jaxxen knows this was no accidental strike, and immediately fires his crossbow toward the figure, hitting him.  Matheris then gets behind a boulder. We notice a third figure come out of the woods. Matheris hits and does damage with Jinxia cheering him on. Jinxia attempts but misses and ducks. One of the orcs was on his back. Jinxia hits it. The orc shouts at Matheris and hits him.  Saw some shuffling movement behind the boulder where they are.  Jaxxen hit the orc and then runs for the boulder. Matheris moves towards the orcs and Jinxia readies for another shot.  One of the half-orcs disengages and makes a break for the woods.  We see the remaining half orce bloodied mouth and badly injured. Jaxxen demands his told and he says its on his side. Jaxxen reaches for it, but notices the orc grabbing his dagger. Jaxxen quickly fires a crossbow bolt but misses. Jaxxen is hit by the dagger for a small damage. Matheris rushes in with longsword, but stumbles and misses. Jinxia saves us hitting for enough damage to kill this dastardly being.  Jaxxen takes the pouch, sees the coin inside, grabs 3 gold and hands them to Matheris. Matheris in turn hands some to Jinxia.  Jaxxen decides to try to pursue the one that got away while Matheris rounds up the horse and mule.  Jaxxen follows the blood trail but after a while loses the trail and decides to return to Matheris.  Matheris is having a bit of difficulty rounding up the beasts. Jaxxen catches up to Serafina and succeeds at calming her and removing the arrow from her side. She's heavily wounded and still bleeding. Jaxxen has nothing to stop the bleeding. Its getting dark. Matheris fully heals Jaxxen.  We see the three stones on the ground and decide we should make camp around here. The stones are exactly is it was told it would be.

## Day 4

We eat rations and were fully healed over night.  Matheris heals the mule Serafina.  We investigate and look at rocks in the field. Jinxia notices more in a distance in the forest. Most are stone from the tower on the ground. Buried in the earth somewhat from years of weathering. Centuries.  We see a stagnant puddle of water about 30x40 foot that is green on one side, sick swampy like, and a tree off to the distance.  Looking close at the stones under bushes we see a wooden doors of some type.  Jaxxen thinks the door may be trapped. Jinxia takes a closer look and sees a trap line to a spikey log overhead.  Not sure how to disarm it, Jaxxen concocts a plan to trigger it. We all step clear of the trap and Jaxxen throws his spear at the door. It hits solid and causes the trap to trigger. A big limb with spikes swooshes down crashing with heavy force into the tree and stops. Its clear that if we were there, we'd be dead.  Matheris throws a rock at the door. Nothing else happens.  The spear is destroyed.  Jinxia doesnt see any more traps.  The door is a double oak door with a keyhole. It's about 4x6 foor and into side old stone same as the tower. Offset about 70 to 80 feet and at an angle.  Jaxxen decides to try to just open the door. Its unlocked! It opens with ease.  Holding the door open, he welcomes the party to step inside.  Within its dark. And steep. Too step for the horse and mule. We quickly tie them up outside to the tree, and venture within.  The air is moist wet air kind of mildewy. It's not evil, but offseting. Inside its dark. Jinxia is a halfling and can't see. We are guiding with Matheris in front, Jaxxen middle and Jinxia to the rear. Jaxxen pulls out pen and parchment and works on trying to draw a map of their progress down the slope. We get down a ways and nothing happens. There's an entry to a room ahead 40 feet down. Jaxxen tries throwing some sand to see if it triggers anything. Nothing happens. Matheris attempts with a single ball bearing. It bounces into the room and must have hit a wall as it comes back towards the steps.  We go into the room, about 25 ft. See several bedrolls, some furniture. Food and drink look like someone was recently here. Jaxxen checks the corner for any feces or droppings and finds none. Just mildewy. Jaxxen convinced its nothing like goblins or other wretched creatures, but could be worse if its like cultists.  When entering the room, another wooden door was noticed. Vertical ahead. 2-3 people had to have put a boulder in front of the door to try to keep something in.  We see hooded robes from the half-orc with blood on it. Its then that we notice the blood trail splatter that had gone up the stairs. Matheris checks it over and suggests its about 6 hours to a day old. Very recent. Jaxxen convinced this is the orc that fled into the forest the previous day.

**_Technical Intermission_**

With the big tree limb and boulder against the door, we scour the rest of the room. We don't find much of anything apart from a silver piece with Jaxxen promptly pockeets. There's no papers or potions, nor do we find any traps. The room is about 10 feet high, and 30x30 in dimensions. And we had come down about 40 foot of steps.  Looking at big log/tree stump blocking the door we decide to try to push it out of the way.  The boulder proves a bit more challenging, taking all of our might several times and using bits of furniture to slowly move it enough out of the way that we could open the door. Before doing so, Jaxxen does a Thaumaturgy cantrip to cause tremors in the ground and the party listens for any movement on the other side. We hear nothing. We move the boulder the rest of the way and Jinxia tries looking through the keyhole of this wooden door with iron hinges. She also sees nothing and notices no traps, but indicates the door is unlocked. Jaxxen pulls the cloth from under the door and all at once the smell of decaying matter wafts in, quite the bad odor. Slowly opening the door, Jaxxen motions for Matheris and Jinxia to enter. The floor and side of wall has a cave in. Think its from green murky pool from up on the surface. On ride side of wall there is a hallway that continues. Jaxxen updates his map.  

Taken off guard, Matheris is hit by a tentacle that reaches down from above with pointy jags. They didnt inject any fluids but hurt Matheris badly. Then a mandible like head overhead. This beast is large, about 5 feet wide and 15 feet long, like a centipede of some sort [carrion crawler]. Jaxxen notices whats going on and fires his light crossbow at the mandible part. Jinxia jumps up off the shoulders of Matheris to get reach and pierces the creature with a rapier. Matheris swings with a longsword. Throughout the battle damage is taken on both sides and at one point Jinxia is hit, and goes limp. Jaxxen is near death and makes a desperate attempt to grab Jinxia and pull her back into the room we came from. With success, Jaxxen and Jinxia is out of reach of the carrion while Matheris battles on and hits it good.  With each hit the centipede screeches in pain. Jaxxen fires a shot through the door, but misses the crawler. With a final blow, Matheris hits it again and the creature begins falling from the ceiling. Matheris promptly ducks out of the way! 

Hearing the ruckus of the cenitpedes demise, Jaxxen shouts "Go ahead and loot this one, I'll get the next", and tries to tend to Jinxia but has no potions to offer. Matheris looks over the organic matter of stomach matter and sees tunnel from the right wall, brown boots in the muck and a decaying hand among other waste.  He checks out the boots seeing they are finely made, perhaps elven and in good shape.  He notices something else shiny. There could have been a handful of victims in here over time. Matheris finds a finely crafted dagger and a stainless steel canister and takes them both.

The party takes a short rest in the room outside the muck. As a result, Jaxxen is mostly healed, and the poison affecting Jinxia starts to wear off naturally. We consider strategies and potentially returning up the stairs going to town and hiring a mercenary to help us.  Soon after we hear a noise up the steps. Something is on top of the door we came in. There's voices but Jaxxen can't quite make it out. We investigate and think the log trap was reset and triggerd on top of the door as the light is blocked and we cant move it.  We hear the mule and horse going off in the distance and think they've been stolen. Matheris is panicing about his pack animals and we try to think of ways out. With the door weighted we cant budge it. It would take too long to burn it with fire, and we'd suffocate in the process. Matheris does some herbalism on Jinxia healing her more and tells Jaxxen and Jinxia about the boots. Jaxxen takes a look and says that they are boots of elvenkind! The wearer makes no sound from steps and it gives advantage on dexterity checks.  Jinxia equips the boots.  We check back downstairs at the tunnel and hallway. Tunnel has bodies rotted over time and redigested. ugh. Comes out the right side where stone gave way. Hallway on the other side is of proper stone built with the right side caved in. We see that it opens up into another room. This room is 30 by 30 feet, but noticeably taller then others, about 13 feet tall.  Jaxxen uses his steel mirror to look around entry through room and sees door to the right and across the way, along with some furnishings. Its a stone room thats very old. We go in the room. Jaxxen looks at the door across the way and sees that it is orante markings with the word "URAM" script. The other door in the room also has markings, but in a language that nobody her understands.  There's also some fancy lantern hooks on the wall, and Jaxxen suggests that these lanterns are more useful for seeing than the candle that Jinxia has been carrying around.
