# Session 9 - Freeing Prisoners, and Rallying them to Fight

20230714
- Matheris Corvein / Halfelf Bard 3
- Jinxia Thornwhisper / Halfling Rogue 3
- Jaxxen Nage / Tiefling Warlock 3
- Edwin / Halfelf Druid 2
- Hereist / Human Fighter 2
- Ingrin / Dwarf Cleric 2
- Ulysses / Halfling Monk 2

<i>The main group is in the 40x40 room where we took out some hobgoblins.</i>

Ulysses comes in through the cemetery, sneaking through teh gate. He busts into the 40x40 foot room and greets us. Explains he had been meditating and now has new abilities.  We finish our short rest and considered extending to a full rest for improved recovery.  Outside, it is dark above.

## Another Round of Hobgoblins

We concoct a plan. A time later, a goblin bangs on the door and says "Food? Do you want food?"  Edwin replies "Come back later, we're taking a shit!". Its now that Ulysses learns of the goblin toe necklace. Jaxxen heads to the pillar room and investigates for any secret walls. Ingrin guards the door with Ulysses and Jinxia also aids in checking for secret passages. None are found and so Jinxia opens the riddle door and hides behind it. Jaxxen hides behind a pillar. Matheris disguises himself as a hobgoblin. Hereist and Ingrin are outside teh lower door in big room hiding in bunk room.  Jaxxen takes the form of a hobgoblin and creates Misty Vision of the form of a human. He then messages Matheris that the group up top is all set.  

Matheris hits the war gong 3 times.  He messages Edwin asking how to say "Get em" in Goblin, and Edwin responds in kind.  After some time, the door opens and goblin starts walking into the room. Matheris acts injured as a hobgoblin and points up stairs. Other hobgoblins rush in. Jaxxen makes the humanoid shape appear to swing weapons in the air and Matheris feigns passing out. Goblins pulls out sword. Jaxxen guides the image of human to the hallway around corner and humanoid disappears as its out of view. Goblins are rushing after and Jinxia tries to close the door but struggling. Jaxxen tries Thaumaturgy but its not enough to close as a Goblin pushes back and hits Jinxia with a scimitar.

Jaxxen casts chill touch on the hobgoblin for 16 necrotic damage. Jinxia stabs the gobling and disengages to run toward Jaxxen. Edwin casts create bonfirre at the goblins and hobgoblins. The hobgoblin gets out unscated but the goblin fails. Hobgoblin runs for Jaxxen hitting for 7. Jaxxen evades and sends message to Matheris that the plan didn't go perfectly and runs down the stairs. Jinxia goes at the hobgoblin, misses and moves to disengate. Edwin attacks and does some small amount of damage. Hobgoblin catches Jinxia, swings but misses right above her head.  The battle continues for a bit. For a time, Edwin changed form to a dire wolf and began biting hobgoblins. We achieve success and gather some more armor for Hereist. Jinxia locates a keyring with 6 keys on it. Jaxxen consumes a healing potion and readies light crossbow

## Checking the Corridor and Freeing Prisoners

Matheris looks in the doorway and sees a number of doors on either side down a wide hallway about 12 feet wide. We hear a scream. Jaxxen and Matheris look like hobgoblins and walkd down to act like we are doing the rounds checking on prisoners. Up ahead see appearance of a goblin approaching. Look into screaming cell and see 2 humanoids chained to wall and a goblin whipping them.  Jaxxen uses Thaumaturgy to make a fart sound in the room. Edwin hears goblin say that a goblin farted. Matheris uses Prestidigation to make the goblins pants look like he shit himself. Another goblin punches the goblin in the face. On left side of hallway a door opens and goblin carrying tray says something in goblin. We walk down halway and see more prisoners in chains some beaten and bloody. We find a cell with a big burly guy with gnarly teeth and messed up face and scales about him. Matheris tries talking to it in Draconic and it speaks back saying he was attacked in the woods. Jaxxen sends message to Ingrin notifying her that there are cells of prisoners being tortured. Hobgoblin approaches heavily armed and Jaxxen makes a laughing sound behind it as it approaches to startle it. Matheris makes a sound "Get em" in goblin that he learned from Edwin in a message to the hobgoblin. The hobgoblin goes into a door on the right. 

The floor here is still stone with lot of stone and dirt on it and 16 foot high. We cant see end of hallway, but we discuss plan to free the Draconic, heal him to use for extra support. Ingrin hears something come down steps from pillar room and Hereist hides in corner. Matheris readies a spell. Two goblins come down. Ingrin attacks and Hereist as well and hits and kills. Jaxxen and Hereist rush steps to pillar room and Hereist runs to riddle door with Jaxxen following. Hereist shuts the door and the gears lock up. Jinxia lays down caltrops near magical riddle door and Hereist lays down 6 more before lighting his lantern. Jaxxen suggests rolling the barrels to use as partial cover as the hallway is wide open and readies his crossbow. Hereist gets his longsword out and Jinxia has the keys ready. Edwin readies bonfire. Matheris opens the outer door. Jaxxen in hobgoblin form scows and acts like escorting Edwin and Jinxia. We get to the third door and see nobody in cell. Matheris tries keys and finds on third try. Slowly opens door and shuts inside. Jaxxen escorts prisoner Ingrin to the room. Jinxia checks and finds key that opens shackles to the dragonborn and after getting unlocked Ingrin casts cure wounds on him.  We give him rations and find his name is Yilmar. He was bound and couldnt see. We hear screams in another cell. 

_Yilmar is Freed_

We decide to head to other rooms and see male and female inside. Matheris and Jinxia find the key to free them from shackles and they collapse on floor with severe cuts. Try to heal them and carry them to bunk rooms. In first room we see 4 tide up (2 halfling, 1 elf and a human) Matheris opens the cell and talks to them and starts getting them out of shackles. Halfling has tatoos. Down hallway we hear a door open up and see hobgoblin asking whats going on down there? Edwin translates and Jaxxen says to tell him we're processing the prisoners. We give the freed prisoners water in the main room and Matheris helps them into room. 

## Interrogation

Edwin looks at tattoo on the one and its the three nails. He taps Matheris to let him know. We put him in a separate room.  Matheris, Jinxia and Jaxxen with him in the room to interrogate him. Claims that he makes contributions to church and was ambushed and the tattoo is from 7 years ago and is no longer with the Casket Nails. Matheris senses he is lying to him. Hes been down here 10 days and was working at a fruit peddlar across from the Owl Tavern. The conversation continues for a bit but we find nothing of real benefit. Jaxxen exits the room, changes form to a dark elf and comes in and speaks in infernal stating "You will tell us who you are" with an evil look.  The tattoo guy then says he didnt mean to steal the stuff from the dark elf. And he's not a devotee of Tyr like he claimed. Had talked to "Dalk" (or Palk? my notes are scribbles) in DGT on the third floor. That he got there from secret passage on Merchant street. We ask how to get there and he says its a code word. But they'll kill him if he tells. He wont tell us and its clear he wants to die no matter what.. He relents, and says the code word is "Dwellar". And he supposedly answers to a half elf named Scar who is quite skilled. Jaxxen pulls a dagger and cuts into his cheek and says is the scar like this? and the tattood guy says yes. From outside Hereist asks whats going on. Jaxxen stabs tatoo guy to death quickly as he screams. And we exit telling Hereist that he just died and was too far gone from the torture.

**(break)**

## Battle in the Hallway

The group discusses plans and we know we're in for a fight. Jaxxen casts Armor of Agathys on self. Edwin will cast Bonfire. Matheris gives his longsword to the Dragonborn. We reopen the door and Hereist places lantern inside door. We setup the barrels and Hereist and the Dragonborn pus inside with Ingrin helping. Matheris opens door and sets up Dancing Lights.  A door down the hallway on right side opens up. Edwin casts Bonfire at the door hitting and killing a goblin in the process. Matheris hits the gong. Jaxxen readies crossbow. Door on right hobgoblin looking and Jinxia goes to open a door. Shoots arrows at the door and the person closes it. We're all ready with bows set to fire. Left door opens across from the fire and a hobgoblin peaks out. Matheris hits himeself with a firebolt. Hereist shoots and misses while Jinxia's shot lands. Jaxxen also lands a hit for 8. A hobgoblin falls inside the door. We see more doors to the right and left and stairs going.  Jaxxen and Hereist move forward.  Ingrin moves closers to flame door and Edwin holding concentration to keep fire burning. We move barrels to block a door on the left side preventing hobgoblin escape. Matheris looks in door of fire and cant tell how many are behind. The door is wooden and smoke is filling the hallway. Edwin drops the bonfire. Matheris rushes in casting thunderwave. Hear cries of agony as goblins dying and injured. Ingrin rushes in with war hammer swinging and killing one. Jaxxen hits one killing it. Hereist lands shot and kills another. Edwin moves to door, sees three goblins coming and casts bonfire on them. Jaxxen shoots and misses. Ingrin moves up front and goblins miss. One of them trips and falls. Jaxxen swaps crossbow for orb as the door opens. 3 Humans rush out to big room with aprons on. Jaxxen hits a goblin killing it. On the opposite side the hobgoblin is pushing door with the barrel blocking.  The door opens. Jaxxen rushes over to door opening, stabs inside with dagger and green flame but there's no additional targets. Jinxia performs sneak attack killing it. Other big door opens and goblin and dwarves run out to 40x40 room. Try to hit the dwarf and miss. Edwin attempts to use Entangle but the hard stone floor doesnt provide adequate surface for vines to grip to. Hereist shoots a goblin dead. 

Dwarves are screaming for their lives and Matheris yells "Stop!". They keep going. Ingrin yells "Stop!" in dwarvish. They turn around and look.  She says "We wont harm you if you talk to us" .Through a quick conversation find out they have been prisoners for some time down here and dont want to get killed. Albar and Gramma kept prisoners as cooks. They can speak common and they relay that the dark elf runs the place and is named Zeldar and wears robes. He may be a magic caster and has large hobgoblins as bodyguards. The human prisoners are blacksmiths.  One of the dwarves provides a rough map of the area they made over time. Jaxxen stays watch in main hallway while others check blacksmith and storage area. The group finds a crate for Zeldar in the storage and its contents are finer foods. Jaxxen pokes in the latrine. What a mess. He uses Mold Earth to shape the rubbish to spell the words "Zeldar Likes Poo". Matheris checks sleeping quarters and finds some coin.  In the kitchen looking for potions, vials, any thing practical. Ingrin checks the blacksmith area out of professional interest.  Blacksmiths claim that Zeldar been preoccupied with some other mission. They want to get out of here. 

_Night of the Dead_

Matheris will unock the door to help escort some of those people out up through cemetary. Directs them to Temple of Tyr for aid and healing. He uses mage hand to unlock the door and dwarves lead people out to "safety".  Edwin checks that cemetary is clear. Opens mosoleum door and notices dirt has been disturbed in cemetary. Dark clouds at night over head with little light. Dont see dwarves or prisoners and some headstones turned over. Another mosoleum is tipped on its side. He locks the door and hears fingernails scratching at the door.

We lock the lower door and move barrel over to the door.

Jaxxen looks through kitchen sees freshwater coming in, one running, overflowing pot onto floor. Ovens have vents to ceiling. Edwin considers climbing up as a rat but doesnt. We find some cooking oil and make some makeshift oil flasks with it by using the jars from emptying spices. 

Hereist mentions he saw something from stairs looking up that went back down. Saw a figure peaking over and it took off.  

## Rallying the Troops

Matheris checks remaining cells and sees human female in shackles. Wont send her up top and instead unlocks door. Finds her name is Leerah and he sends her to blacksmith shop to arm up. Next cell has some gnolls and these too he convinces to join and fight as they dont like Zeldar. Also another cell with Half Orcs joins. Matheris successfully persuades them to head down steps to fight as its the way out of here. The old human woman holds back and doesnt go down with the half orcs and gnolls.  Jaxxen looks to Hereist and says "This guy is crazy, but sometimes effective" Ingrin checkout out room sleeping quarters. We hear screams down below.

**(Player for Ingrin had to depart)**

Jaxxen readies to go down and behind Hereist and Yilmar, then Jinxia. Edwin covers mouth and nose and steps in the Latrine. He decides to set it on fire. We go down the stairs and hear commotion of fighting. The stairs are long and windy spiral. We heard fighting but by time we get to bottom its now nice and quiet. Opens up to a big room. Matheris sets Dancing Lights overhead. We see some dead bodies. The gnolls and half orcs are slain.  Hereist and Yilmar get shield ready. Arrows come flying towards us and hit the dragonborn. Hereist puts his lantern down. He got hit but still runs fowrard. See 4 arrows hit Hereist shield and 2 go by dragonborn on the left side. Also see some goblins dead but there are 4 goblins left. Hereist rushes and swings at a goblin. Miss it then hit heavy. Yilmar swings and isses.

## Fighting the Firebolt Flying Fanatic

_initiative rolls_

Jaxxen hits a goblin and the moves back some. Edwin casts Bonfire. Jinxia hits. From far a firey spell comes toward Matheris but misses. Goblin goes after Yilmar, hitting him. Another swings at Hereist and misses. Matheris looks to where spell came from hits close to door but misses. Hereist attacks goblin, hitting and killing it. Yilmar does the same to another goblin. Firebolt screams through the air toward Jaxxen but misses. Lady sprints to the left side of room and Ingrin jumps over goblins to front door on left.

Jaxxen dequips crossbow, switches to orb while running to the door. Sees ceiling is 40 foot up with stalagtites coming down. Edwin in room of huge barracks. Jinxia shoots with disadvantage and misess. Matheris misses his attack. Another firebolt fired at Hereist but misses. Yilmar shoots and misses. The White haired lady runs off the side. Ingrin moves forward to third door. 

Jaxxen uses Misty Vision to make the appearance of a merchant tent to the side of door. Edwin casts fog cloud on the door. Another firebolt comes but misses. Jinxia tries to scale the wall. Matheris runs to the right dashing. Hereist sees the fog cloud and runs across room to doors on opposite side. Yilmar follows Hereist. The lady climbs wall as well and gets behind a door. Ingrin is holding back.

Jaxxen moves fowrad on right side, equips dagger preparing for melee. Eddwin moves toward spell caster and dodges. Jinxia hangs holding ready to shoot when fog cloud drops. Matheris rolls acrobatics to be in doorway and slams thunderwave for 8 damage. The enemy is blown back. Bad guy comes out flying from the fog cloud and shoots at Yilmar hitting with firebolts. Hereist runs into door to get ouf of fire, pulling Yilmar. White haired lady tries to jump on flying guy but misses and takes damage on the fall. Jinxia misses. Ingrin holds. Jaxxen misses a Chill Touch attempt
