# Session 10 - Rescuing a Drow, and Face to Face with Zeldar

20230717
- Matheris Corvein / Halfelf Bard 3
- Jinxia Thornwhisper / Halfling Rogue 3
- Jaxxen Nage / Tiefling Warlock 3
- Edwin / Halfelf Druid 2
- Hereist / Human Fighter 2
- Ingrin / Dwarf Cleric 2
- Ulysses / Halfling Monk 2

_The main group is in the Library deciding where to rest_

We decided to take a long rest.  Matheris hands scrolls to Jaxxen (Eldritch Blast, Cause Fear, Hellish Rebuke, and Arms of Hadar). 

Leera is outside the library in main corridor and is near the next door. She does some thieves cant to inform Jinxia she needs her help. Jinxia goes to check the door to the storage room where Leera is, checking it for traps.  She hears someone calling out for help. She doesnt think there are traps but knows the door is locked. Wants someone there. 

Jaxxen is curious about the room on the map labeled as murky water. Jaxxen checks the door of the murky water room. Its not like the others. Its metal like a fortified door.

Edwin is still looking through the library for interesting books. Finds one with a map of his homeland that was taken over by a tyrant. Its quite detailed.

Back in the corridor, Jaxxen gives up on the door and heads over to Jinxia and Leera.

Matheris in the library working on making notes on map.

Jaxxen, Leera, and Jinxia looking at the door. Door is solid wooden with no windows. Jaxxen tries the handle. Its locked. Hear sounds from within calling out "Help... help" in undercommon and common. Kieran is a character inside and claims had a confrontation with another of their kind and they did a hold person spell. Heard a big battle several hours ago and been quiet since until hearing whispers. A hissing sound is heard.

Matheris asks "who are you you? why is this not a trap?"  Kieran responds that shes strapped to a wall, and  to please help. Makes more hissing.  Jaxxen suggests opening the door. There's only one voice inside and we can close it if need be. He equips his orb and dagger.  Hereist gets his longsword out and shield up. Edwin casts guidance on Jinxia and Jinxia works on picking the lock. She's successful. Matheris uses mage hand to open the door. Jaxxen whips it open with Thaumaturgy. We see a dark elf woman shackled to the wall. She has battle scars on her and one that looks like it is burning on her left shoulder. Matheris begins unlocking the shackles from the keyring. These are a different color and better made.  Jaxxen provides a potion to Kieran.

She tells us she was goingto volunteer as a gladiator and thats what brought her into the clutches of this drow. Due to her patron had to follow the orders of her guild members. Other dark elf sensed her following him and did horrible magic to her and would get even when back from a trip. Dark elf looked with sinister smile saying I'm not done with you yet when binding her.

Matheris investigates and notices a hole. Jaxxen asks Kieran what caused that burning scar. Kieran replies its from great power, not the one who controls her. Edwin asks if the one who captured had any marks, and she responds a tatoo, robe and white hair.. Matheris asks what the tattoo looked like. It is just undercommon symbols but dont know the meaning. Kieran specializes in exploration and is a retired gambler.  Matheris asks if been here recently and Kieran says its been several days.  For equipping we get her somehting that can fire projectiles. A bow.  Jaxxen hands her a dagger to use and cut dead bodies as necessary to get to weapons.

Leera is studying the hole and thinks it can be opened easily. Jinxia investigates it and learns the hole trap works a mechanism to open the door. Need a thin item to push in. Kieran finds 15 arrows and a quiver, short bow, hand axe, a belt and long sword. Jaxxen keeps an eye on Kieran for what weapons she takes. Edwin checks the barracks. We never ran into Zeldar and not sure where he went. We hear something coming from the section labeled on the map as private quaters. A large sound like an explosion and yelling in undercommon.

Jaxxen casts Armor of Agathys on self. Edwin goes to other side of barracks. Kieran goes to barracks to hide. Jaxxen rushs to consider tying rope across door as a simple trip trap, but realizes he doesnt have the time. Edwin in the barracks. Door blasts open - a robed figure walks out looks like a dark elf and casts spell creating a wall of water in an archor shape about 30 feet wide, 10 feet tall 1 foot thick. Jaxxen is by the waterpipe in corner and a door.

_initiative rolls: ediwn: 7, kiaran: 18, jaxxen: 15, ingrin: 1, hereist: 14, Yilmar: 20, leera: 9, jinxia: 9, materhis: 12_

Yilmar is waiting. Kiaran hides under bunks. Drow walks in. Jaxxen casts chill touch toward the drow and misses and runs toward the wall to the upscale barracks. Hereist busts out running for the spellcaster. Shoots through wall of water and misses. Matheris moves self above door and to the right. Leera attempts to climb higher. Jinxia holds an action. Edwin looks out door and casts fog cloud on him as a 20 ft sphere. Ingrim holds back.

Yilmar sees Hereist and rushes with his longsword. Kiaran remains in a hiding spot. The drow moves forward to where teh chill touch missed and runs at the fog cloud. Casts a large amount of fire. Jaxxen dodges, but still takes some damage even with Hellish Resistance. The water pipe is scaling hot and the door on fire. He then casts at Hereist.  Jaxxen casts shape water to make the wall of water appear red and get past the latrine to where the water wall is. Hereist runs across the room seeing the red wall of water and runs to library. Matheris clinging to ceiling sends message to spellcaster in undercommon saying "All your war gong are belong to us". Leera is crawling on the ceilng and not spotted. Jinxia takes a shot and misses. Edwin cast bonfire on the drow doing damaage and the fog cloud goes away. Ingrin comes out with warhammer but stays behind red wall.

Yilmar does breath weapon hitting for 9. Kiaran goes to the door and sees the dark elf. She casts sacred flame and hits. Dark elf then drinks a potion and takes to the sky flying. Jaxxen hits him with lightning damage for 18 and runs behind the wall of red water. Heresit shoots longbow and misses. Matheris charges at him and does his theme music and performs thunderwave. The BBEG drow falls and takes damage. Leera takes damage but does an arial grapple on the drow and stabs with 2 daggers. Jinxia misses a shot. Edwin climbs wall as spider and shoots and misses. Ingrin does Toll the Dead for necrotic damage.

Yilmar hits with bow for 3 damage. Kiaran's mark is burning with hissing sound. Casts Chromatic Orb from the dragon mark doing serious damage combined with channel divinity of thunder. Expends more power to gain temp hit points but fails enduring the damage instead. The drow does a thunderclap and knocks LEera and Matheris back 10 feet. Leera on ground hurt and heads to stairwell. Jaxxen goes through wall of water and freezes a section behind him, begins running toward the door that the drow came from as its still open. Hereist hits the bad guy with an arrow. Matheris rushes over and casts thunderwave. Leera shoots through the wall of water and hits for small damage. Jinxia shoots and misses. Edwin tries to web him up and misses. Ingrin uses toll the dead again but misses.

Yilmar shoots again and hits. Kiaran fires a short bow and mises. Teh drow drinks a potion and looks completely healed. He's in the stairwell up a few steps trying to hide. Water goes away except the frozen block. Jaxxen sends a message to him "You'll never surve this. Give up now". And the evil drow replies "You will fucking die!"  Jaxxen continues heading for the door.  Hereist misses his shot and runs towards the stairwell. Matheris attacks and lands a hit. Leera shoots with Bow but string breaks. She drops it and runs toward the stairs. Jinxia sees bad guy and pulls daggers, dashes 60 feet twoard wall south of him for cover. Edwin runs up to try to bite and hits with some poison damage. Ingrin runs over.

Yilmar shoots bow hitting for 6. Kiaran runs to him and does thunderclap cantrip. Ingrin and Edwin take some damage as a result. BBEG drow casts a spell of flames from fingertips and Matheris, Kieran and Edwin all take fire damage. Jaxxen enters the door and sends a message to Zeldar saying "Zeldar sends his regards", and the drow replies "I'm comming for you bitch!" Jaxxen closes the door and continues down hallway.  Hereist misses a shot, and Matheris pulls out a potion to drink for some healing. Leera diving lunge with daggers but misses. Jinxia runs to stab him in the balls. First dagger misses, but second hits and then she moves back around corner. Edwin moves back and tries to use a web on him and it works. Ingrin swings a war hammmer doing more damage.

Yilmar runs to the spellcaster. Kieran does thunderwave and does 9 damage knocking Edwin, Leera, and Hereist unconscious while others sustain wounds.  BBEG drow performs a strength save breaking free of hte web. He starts flying and gaining altitude. Jaxxen rushes down the hallway and casts Thaumaturgy to swing door completely open to private quarters and sees room. He makes it to the closet. Sees 2 paintings on either side and a mirror straight ahead.  Hereist looks like he is dead. Matheris messages Jinxia. Leera knocked out. Jinxia attempts to unlock the round room. It opens up. Edwin heals Ingrin. Ingrin is back conscious and heals Hereist some. 

Yilmar shoots at BBEG and misses. Kieran rushes to the barracks to try casting sacred flame at the BBEG and hits. She then takes cover behind door. BBEG targets Matheris and tries to hit lightning bolt for 30. He's a crispy critter. Then flies to other end of room.  Jaxxen sees painting, 2 look like forest scenes, 1 the inside of a castle, another kind of a murky swamp. He tries to shatter the mirror with his dagger, but to his surprise, his hand goes right through! Attempt to walk through and sees some place he has been before. Loud music, curtains, powerful bards. Looks like a real happening tavern. He realizes he must be in the Drunken Goblin.  Hereist chasing the guy that is flying. Matheris fails a death save. Leera is permanently dead. Jinxia in a rage about Matheris death and pulls a bow and shoots at BBEG drow but misses. Edwin goes to Matheris and casts cure wounds, setting him to 1 hp. Ingrin tries to heal Matheris and gives him 6 more health.

Yilmar shoots at BBEG and misses again! Kiaran shoots and does a little damage. BBEG focuses on Yilmar with magical energy damage. Jaxxen sees mirror behind silk curtain and very loud. Sees high level or magic instruments and recognizes Otto. Rushes over to him trying to persuade him that he needs his help but he wont go. Instead Otto refers to another spellcaster that is helping the bards up front. Everyone jamming out and Otto tells him his name is Malachi. Song comes to an end and Otto cheers Malachi. Tries persuading Malachi to join him. He's also a tiefling and leans in. Jaxxen tells him its Zeldar. Malachi says "I hate that guy" and he comes along abck through the mirror with Jaxxen.  Hereist is sprinting. Matheris is bravely staying alive, attacks but misses. Jinxia shoots her bow and hits then ducks into library. Edwin drags Matheris to the barracks. Ingrin drinks a potion.

Yilmar shoots a bow and arrow shoots up at ceiling. Kiaran bow shoots and misess. BBEG turns around. Blue energy from fingerprints toward Yilmar, hitting him and knocking him unconscious. He then turns and heads into the door down the hallway.  Jaxxen gets to the hallway and they are face to face. Malachi starts a spell and causes tremendous lightning to the drow, knocking him back. Jaxxen follows up with necrotic damage. Zeldar chants a spell and casts ligthning at malachi, which Malachi dispells. Malachi chants another spell and a beam of cold energy comes out with blkue white light for cold damage and Zeldar appears frozen.  Malachi checks the quarters for spells and tells Jaxxen "Come see me sometime at the Drunken Goblin". 

Jaxxen goes past frozen dark elf to the door and when sees group says "We need to drestroy it!" pointing at the frozen ice block. Hereist offers to hit with longsword and chips of some ice are coming off. 

Yilmar unconscious. Kiaran hits with hand axe. Jaxxen stabs silver dagger in its back. Matheris casts Thunderwave blasting it to bits and damaging several party members in the process. Jaxxxen takes serious damage as does Kiearan, Ingrin knocked unconscious, along with Yilmar. Edwin wasn't near.  Kieran sacred flames Matheris in response but misses. Edwin sighs, shaking his head. Ingrin on the ground. He attempts to stabilize Ingrin with medicine and shes at 1 hp. Hereist sees the interaction between Kiaran and the Bard and attempts to grapple Kiearan "What is wrong with you! We're on the same team!" Her mark is glowing and causing pain. Matheris readies a spell. Jinxia stabs Kieran with a rapier knocking her unconscious. Edwin doesnt look to happy "What are we doing? Killing each other now?" Jinxia points at Ingrin and the Dragonborn "What do you think happened to them?" Matheris casts healing word on Kieran. Jaxxen stabilizes Yilmar and hands a healing potion to Kiearan. Then says to Matheris "Watch your area of effect spells". Hereist chimes in "You didn't give enough warning Matheris, and You Kieran, deliberately did so almost causing people to die" Jaxxen suggests we clean up and burn the bodies. Edwin looks around. Kieran searches for her stuff. 

In the private quarters find some items, bag, potion on dresser opaque pink wrapping on fine leather. Its unidentified. Matheris found a bag of holding. 

At the round room of murky water, Kieran looks at the water. She jumps in the water and it moves and engulfs her. Its trying to drown Kieran. It tries pulling her under. Jinxia sees it and drop kicks the door shut and locks it. Kiaran is squeezed under the water and is unconscious. Edwin saw Jinxia locking the door and walking off. Asking what she was doing. Jinxia walks back to Matheris. Edwin tries the handle. Its locked. Kknocks on the door and calls out asking if shes ok, bangs on the door, but there's no answer. Ingrin comes over and doesnt know what to do with the door locked. Theres no saving her. 

Meanwhile, back at the private quarters, Jaxxen finds a draw in dresser with compartment with sack of coins, 15 pound weight, and he ties it around his waist.

Jinxia checks the side rooms. Edwin walks away from the round room and glares at Jinxia and rejoins the others. Looksat the dark elf in pieces and he notices 3 rings on the ground and decies to pocket them. Also sees the remnants of a destroyed spellbook and wand, as well as a fine dagger. Matheris checks the secret pathway from the private quarters side. Jaxxen looks in the room behind door is a nice shield.  He shows Hereist the shield and he accepts.  We lost Leera. Ingrin says the dragonborn had a heart attack and is no longer with us. Jaxxen considers trying to unlock the door to the round room.

At this point, Ulysses the drunken monk walks in. Asks what happened and jumps on the bed and goes to sleep again.

Jinxia checks secret passage for traps. Jaxxen uses thieves tools to work the lock and succeeds. Matheris doesnt find any traps. Kieran's equipment is found in the area access the secret passage way. There's the infinite cupcake, which Matheris takes. There are some nicely stacked arrows here, 2 dozen of them and give to Hereist and Jinxia. Theres' a two handed war axe, short sword and mace. Jinxia picks a lock and opens the lid to a chest. Smoke billows forth out and people are being put to sleep. Jaxxen evades the non-magical smoke.
